SDLC is a process followed for a software project, within a software organization. It consists of a detailed plan 
describing how to develop, maintain, replace and alter or enhance specific software. 
The life cycle defines a methodology for improving the quality of software and the overall development process.

The following figure is a graphical representation of the various stages of a typical SDLC.














Stages of SDLC
A typical Software Development Life Cycle consists of the following stages −

Stage 1: Planning and Requirement Analysis
       Requirement analysis is the most important and fundamental stage in SDLC. It is performed by the senior members of the 
team with inputs from the customer, the sales department, market surveys and domain experts in the industry. 

Stage 2: Defining Requirements
       Once the requirement analysis is done the next step is to clearly define and document the product requirements and get 
them approved from the customer or the market analysts. 

Stage 3: Designing the Product Architecture
       SRS is the reference for product architects to come out with the best architecture for the product to be developed. 
Based on the requirements specified in SRS, usually more than one design approach for the product architecture is proposed 
and documented in a DDS - Design Document Specification.
This DDS is reviewed by all the important stakeholders and based on various parameters as risk assessment, product robustness, 
design modularity, budget and time constraints, the best design approach is selected for the product.

Stage 4: Building or Developing the Product
       In this stage of SDLC the actual development starts and the product is built. The programming code is generated as per DDS 
during this stage. If the design is performed in a detailed and organized manner, code generation can be accomplished 
without much hassle.

Stage 5: Testing the Product
      This stage refers to the testing only stage of the product where product defects are reported, tracked, fixed and retested, until 
the product reaches the quality standards defined in the SRS.

Stage 6: Deployment in the Market and Maintenance
      Once the product is tested and ready to be deployed it is released formally in the appropriate market. 